The Joe Rogan experience.
I like that you think about how long you have left on the planet?
I think you should. Yeah. Yeah. I wake up, I try to think about that every day.
You know,
all like politicians I'll enter office and I'll make a clock set for like four
years or whatever, and it counts down. I need to get one of those,
like for life, for like roughly my life expectancy and it counts down backwards.
Well, I think that.
Your life expectancy, I mean,
you are one of the few people that I know that has almost been killed by a
grizzly bear.
Well, yeah. Well, um, do you have a real, like in a brush?
Yeah. Uh, something enough where it was scary enough that I, now,
now that I've studied it a fair bit, that I now know I had, um,
I had a mental, I had, uh,
I had a, I had like a,
like a near death experience, mental, a near death experience,
mental experience, even though I was unharmed, but,
but it jarred my brain so hard. It jarred my, the, the, the, the, the, the,
the minute or the seconds that occurred,
jarred my brain so hard that as I started,
as I've tried to be curious about and study about what happened in my brain, um,
it's parallels are all found in w and it's discussed by people who discuss near
death experiences, which might just mean I'm not like I'm mentally,
not that I'm not as tenacious mentally as I'd like to be, but I,
my brain got joggled, but don't you think that joggled the word?
No. Don't you think that when you're in contact with an animal,
that's that large, I mean, a predatory animal. That's how big was it? 10 feet.
Okay.
Easily. Yeah. I don't want to, I mean, like, it was like struck all of us,
and we've looked at a lot of bears as being like, you know, a mature brown bear.
Okay. So mature Kodiak brown bear. Yeah.
That's what we wanted to talk about.
Talk about where you were at a fog knack island,
which is a place that has enormous bears.
That whole part of the world is known for some of the largest brown bears on
earth.
Yeah. It's this, I mean, it's,
it's separated from Kodiak by a narrow straight it's like,
so like the Kodiak brown bear being like the world's biggest barrels is a
neighboring island, but that specific specimen, you know,
I don't know a mature animal, but just huge. Just huge. Yeah.
When you're around something like that,
where there can be no doubt that you can't get out of the way you can't,
you can't fight it off. You can't, you're, you're helpless.
Like it must trigger something in your,
your mind where you, you,
you come to grips with the reality of predator and prey that you almost were on
the menu. Like,
there's just no way around that you can't there's no,
there's no rationalizations.
You could play in your mind when you're confronted with such absolute
superiority.
With the term playing possum. Yeah. Obviously. So,
uh, our understanding of opossums now is that they're not playing.
They conk out, right? Yeah. Yeah.
Stress he's not playing dead. He hits such an a, like,
he hits such a stress level that he shuts off. Um,
I'm like embarrassed to admit,
but I think it's instructive to point out that, uh,
I was playing possum in that moment and I don't mean playing.
Yeah. It like it, possum, to me out.
Let's tell everybody who doesn't know the story. Yeah. So real quick, um.
Fog neck island, we've been.
Yapping a long time, but we had, uh,
we were hunting it at hung a elk up in a tree and left it for a day and a half,
all the meat hanging in a tree. Um, and we're camped few miles away from there.
And went back to retrieve,
went back with some few guys to retrieve the meat out of the tree and, uh, uh,
Baird found it. Um, and
we were very,
very aware that this might occur and went up and investigated the area around
the tree and determined that the bear hadn't found it yet. In fact,
that the carcass of the animals land not far away, it was untouched. Um,
in hindsight, there was a pile of bear that had been smeared on the,
on the ground. And I remember looking at that pile of bear.
And I'm wondering if it had been smeared by a bear's foot or smeared by a boot.
And I determined that it looked like I'd been smeared by a boot,
which would have men,
and we'd smeared the when we were hanging thing in the tree. And then stupidly,
we like sat down and eat lunch.
And within a couple of minutes to sit down and eat lunch, um, it came, you know,
the bear came in and it's, it's open mouth past, uh,
just 18 inches from my head. Jeez. And I was facing away.
So I was the last one to see it. Um, Yonis who, you know,
he had a pistol, he had bear spray,
but he hit it in the head with a pair of black diamond trekking
poles. He had sat down,
he's got spray and set his pistol on his pack.
But then when the,
when I talk about like playing possum and all the that happens there,
his instinct is to smack it with the track and pole. Wow. Everything you spend,
all your, you know,
you spend all your time thinking about how you're going to handle this, that,
and the other thing. Um, and,
uh, sometimes it's disappointing that you don't handle stress that well,
you know, I, I just, I don't know. I don't know where I went.
One of our guys like got ran over by a bear, wrote it down the hill. Um,
at that moment I snapped out of whatever I was in, but I was,
it shot me down bad. I even noticed, um,
I even noticed there's a thing that happens to people when they get really cold,
they enter a sort of a self fulfilling prophecy mentality.
When you start to get cold, um,
you lose as you start to get really cold, like where you get,
like where you could be in a hypothermic situation, um,
people stop doing the obvious things that you would do to
get warm.
And I is aware of that as I am,
as many times as I've experienced that, I still see it happened to me.
I still have to snap myself out of it. Like you just like,
you're getting cold, you're getting lethargic, you're getting cold,
more lethargic. The cold is getting worse. And I have to be like, you can stop.
You can step in right now and stop this. And I have to remind, it's still,
it's like, it still doesn't come naturally. You know,
when you talk to people who train, like, um, you talk to me,
we were trained for this kind of stuff that they have to train
in a very realistic environment. They have to train, like, keep your head,
you know, and just like, make good decisions.
If you walk into like a active car crash scene or whatever,
and there's a severed hand laying on the ground, right?
Some people are just going to see that hand and they're not going to see
anything else.
Some people are just gonna see chaos and they're not going to focus on any
particular thing, but it's like the person would come in, see the hands,
see everything around them, like assess all that. It's like,
it's just from exposure to that super traumatic stuff. Not to get in.
Kohl's traumatic. But I do, when I, when I look at how I respond to things,
I do catch that there's like a, uh, a mentality to practice and learn.
Yeah. It's.
It's understandable that something like a bear attack would trigger senses
and trigger response that you're just not conditioned for. You're not,
I don't know how you would ever get conditioned to a bear attack. I don't.
Know. I don't know. I mean, I don't know on that same island,
these dudes at the same island, there was some guys, some, uh,
the same island. I think it was later that same year, uh, uh,
some operative, some military guys happened to be hunting there.
They got attacked by a bear and killed.
Really.
Got, one of them got messed up bad, but he killed it. I'm like,
why did he kill it? And I did.
Well, maybe they had their gun out. Right? You.
Were in a weird situation too. Cause if you guys were relaxed,
eating lunch with your guards down, you're sitting there chewing on a sand.
I always laugh because you know what? I was in the middle of saying what,
like I was in the middle of a sentence,
I'll never forget because someone was laughing,
but why we're putting some sandwiches together.
And someone was laughing about why my sandwich looks so much nicer than someone
else's sandwich. And I said, if you want, I was in the middle of saying,
if you want a sandwich like this, get your own TV show, but.
I was never.
Able to finish the sentence. Wow.
But I know I was in the middle of the saying that when all of a sudden the
people around me erupted off the ground, uh, as the,
like a landmine had gone off underneath us. Whoa.
Cause they saw it and I didn't see it. I was looking the other way.
And he came in running. Oh, just, ah, yeah,
no scary man. And I've, I've had like, you know, fair bit fair bit of exposure.
Um, and um, yeah, like, I mean,
relative to most, a ton of exposure to those things,
I got to expose my 10 year old kid to him this year. A couple of times,
you know, um, hunting caribou in Alaska. And it was, it was, it was like,
cool to kind of see his thought process.
You, yeah. You've been exposed to a more than 99.9, nine,
9% of the population. And for it to rattle you like that.
Was disappointing, man. Cause we're always talking about,
I'm going to do this and I'll do that. And we're always like, yeah. You know,
I actually prefer the 44 over to three because you know,
if I can't get it done with this 13, you know,
I got 13 reasons. He doesn't want to charge me with this.
Semi-auto it's like all this like, you know,
but all of a sudden it like hits and like, you know,
SWAT it with a tracking pole. I've only seen.
One grizzly ever in the wild, uh, up close. And, uh,
it wasn't a big one. It was like a six foot pear. But uh,
it looked at me in a way that, uh, another bear has never looked at me before.
Uh, I've seen black bears, black bears look at you. Like, who are you?
Who are you? What's going on? Can I walk by you? Like black bears?
Look at people in a weird way.
Yeah. They're like Denisons of the underbrush man.
The grizzly looked at me like this.
Just locked on me. And I was like, oh. Like Dan is just a different thing.
Like it, it looked at me like, yeah, am I heating you? Am I going to eat you?
Yeah, there's a mindset probably that comes from, uh,
there's a mindset that probably comes from just not being challenged. Yeah.
Episodes of the Joe Rogan experience are now free on Spotify. That's right.
They're free from September 1st to December 1st,
they're going to be available everywhere.
But after December 1st they will only be available on Spotify,
but they will be free. That includes the video. The video will also be there.
It'll also be free. That's all we're asking. Go download Spotify much.
Buh-bye.